Ultrasonic detection and deep learning for high-precision concrete strength prediction
Concrete compressive strength is a critical factor affecting the load-bearing capacity of concrete structures. However, current non-destructive testing for evaluating the concrete strength of in-service structures continues to encounter challenges in terms of accuracy, reliability, and applicability. This study proposes a completely new technological approach, utilizing ultrasonic detection and deep learning techniques. First, standard concrete specimens were prepared for testing, and both compressive strength and ultrasonic tests were performed, leading to the creation of an ultrasonic database with 623 metadata entries. Secondly, a hybrid model combining deep learning and machine learning was developed to predict concrete compressive strength, with the ultrasonic database fed as input for model training. Finally, the performance of the hybrid model was further enhanced through the integration of hyperparameters, as identified by SHapley Additive exPlanations algorithms. The optimal model showed a substantial improvement in precision, reducing the mean absolute error to 2.02 MPa and the mean absolute percentage error to 7.84%. This research highlights the significant potential of utilizing ultrasonic detection and deep learning, and introduces a novel non-destructive testing method for assessing the strength of in-service structures.
The data uploaded to the GITHUB website includes seven Excel data tables, which cover key original and process data, as described below:
	Data1 - CMP Information: Contains details of 18 concrete mixes.
	Data2 - Original Record to CMP: Details the correspondence between the original test records and the CMP.
	Data3 - Ultrasonic Data of TDC (623 entries): Details the relationship between the original test records, CMP, C-Age, Vus, TDC data, and fct (total of 623 records).
	Data4 - Ultrasonic Data of SC (623 entries): Details the relationship between the original test records, CMP, C-Age, Vus, SC data, and fct (total of 623 records).
	Data5 - Prediction Data (125 entries): Contains prediction data for various input signals and models, including fct, fpt, and process data for error calculation (total of 125 records).
	Data6 - Data analysis for optimal model (125 entries): Provides critical process data for the optimal model's prediction performance, including original test records, C-Age, fct, fpt, and process data for error calculation (total of 125 records).
	Data7 - Data7 Relative Error for optimal model: Presents error analysis data for the optimal model (based on C-Age and CMP).
For additional research information, please contact the author via the email address provided in the article.
